---
title: Py Studio - RMarkdown & Python
layout: post
author: gwcarr
post-image: /assets/images/r-language-python.png
description: If you've ever wondered how to make RMarkdown work with python, this post is for you. Convert JuPyter notebooks into RMarkdown Notebooks, run python code, and use R Markdown to beautifully document your python code.
tags:
- RStudio
- reticulate
- JuPyter Notebooks
---

Did you know you could use R, RStudio, RMarkdown, and Python together? Using RMarkdown
to document your code provides a number of benefits compared to other environments, methods,
and resources. Consider the benefits of interoperabilitiy, easy comprehension,
and the wonderful resources that RMarkdown has to offer. Write your code once, document it
and knit your RMarkdown file to reproduce a record of your code in a variety of different formats including:
* html slides
* PDF Documents
* Word Documents
* PowerPoint Presentations
* Github Markdown files
* Interactive slides, files..
* and much more using additional Packaging


There was a previous post about using the package [reticulate](https://stat426-fall2021.github.io/blog/reticulate/). Be sure
to review your setup!

In this post, I will cover a couple of things:
1.  How to use RMarkdown to run and take note of python code
2.  How to use RMarkdown to create different file types

This post will show you how the content will be written and displayed in Rmarkdown.
---

## Creating an R Markdown File

You can create an R Markdown notebook from a jupyter notebook using the following line of code:

    # convert to R Markdown
    nb_rmd <- rmarkdown:::convert_ipynb(nb_file)

Note the use of the triple colon ":::". This is not a double.

write the object to a .Rmd file and you are good to go!

You can also open the file using R Studio.

## Creating Different File Types

Please note you can create the different file types a number of different ways.

You can use RStudio, and create a template, or you can specify the file type in the YAML header.

* beamer_presentation
* context_document
* github_document
* html_document
* ioslides_presentation
* latex_document
* md_document
* odt_document
* pdf_document
* powerpoint_presentation
* rtf_document
* slidy_presentation
* word_document

I will also note that there are other output formats provided using other extension packages.
If you decide to use an extension package, you need to include the package name in the header, like so:

    output: tufte::tufte_html

Much of this is possible through Pandoc, which makes it possible to convert a Markdown
file into many other different formats.

Using ioslides or Slidy, beamer, and powerpoint, you can create interactive slides in html, css, and microsoft powerpoint.
The most important thing to keep in mind,
is that headers are translated as h1 text being the title of the slides, h2 text being a new section,
and so on.

### Dashboards

You can also use ramrkdown to create a dashboard using the *flexdashboard* package.

From [bookdown.org](https://bookdown.org/yihui/rmarkdown/layout.html):
> The overall rule about the dashboard layout is that a first-level section generates a page, a second-level section generates a column
(or a row), and a third-level section generates a box (that contains one or more dashboard components).


Be sure to take a look at your options. You can also use python or R code with Shiny.

-----

Thanks to Pandoc and Rmarkdown, your options for creating different formats to express the same information,
all just by changing the YAML header. I hope you found this post inspiring.
